---
layout: post
title: INET-2.1.0 Stable Release Available
category: news
---

This is the latest stable version of the INET Framework. This version is
now recommended for your further INET-based development. It requires
OMNeT++ 4.2 or 4.3.

NEW:

*   Added a new module to model an "internet cloud". The component can be configured to model packet delay, data rate and drop probability between each input-output interface pair. The parameter matrix is provided as an XML configuration file. See the README file in src/nodes/internetcloud for further details.
*   New SimpleVoIPReceiver/Sender applications that gather MOS (Mean Opinion Score) for measuring voice quality.
*   Added HNA support to the Batman protocol (MANET)

CHANGED:

Applications:

*   PingApp: Shows the configured destination address at the end of the simulation.
*   TCPBasicClientApp: bugfix #611: simulation generated an ASSERT if numRequestsPerSession parameter value larger than 1.
*   TcpApp: socket state is now shown on the GUI (in Echo, Sink and Session apps.)
*   VoipTool: was renamed to VoIPStream (The actual module names are VoIPStreamSender/Receiver.)

Ethernet:

*   Transmission channel's 'disabled' parameter is now correctly handled in EtherMacBase.

Ieee80211Mac:

*   Better parameter processing in MAC: error is thrown if an undefined value is specified for the opmode or autoBitrate parameters.
*   Added the Ieee80211Descriptor class to assign modulation speed and type for the different opModes.
*   Bugfix: Default bitrate for opMode 'p' was incorrectly set.

BGP:

*   Minor optimizations
*   Bugfix: The text in specification "sets the ConnectRetryTimer to zero" means: restart this timer. The _connectRetryTime member now stores the timeout value.

Manetrouting:

*   updated documentation
*   replaced Uint128 with ManetNetworkAddress
*   removed:
    *   unused ManetTimer and BatmanTimer class
    *   unused static variables
    *   isIpLocalAddress(), uses isLocalAddress()
    *   convertAddressToString()
    *   getXPos(), getYPos() functions, you should use getPosition() instead.
*   redesigned coordinate and speed storage and access. replaced double x,y with a Coord. getDirection() now returns the speed vector (as a Coord)
*   getters returns UNSPECIFIED_ADDRESS if addrType==UNDEFINED
*   merged sendToIp() code into a common base function sendToIpOnIface()

AODV:

*   AODV's hand-written descriptors were replaced with generated ones.
*   aodv_msg_struct.h: added getter methods expected by the generated descriptors removed hand-written aodv_msg_struct_descriptor.cc

Batman:

*   Updated and expanded documentation
*   Updated the code to match the latest available "batmand" version.
*   Numerous optimizations
*   Fixed several memory leaks
*   Fixed routing table corruption and possible crash when multiple radios were used in a single host
*   Fixed decapsulation of incoming packets. Now it checks for the type of decapsulated packet.
*   Fix for a problem when aggregated batman packets were dropped erroneously.
*   Added HNA support. Nodes can advertise external networks, so traffic towards those networks can be routed correctly. Use the announcedNetworks parameter to specify multiple connected external networks.
*   Added SourceModifier script to help the conversion from the original batmand code.
    *   fixes spaces, tabs and empty lines
    *   replaces some c-style structs to c++-style classes
    *   replaces some batmand specified list manipulators with c++ code
    *   replaces malloc/free with new/delete
    *   removes prof_start()/prof_stop() calls

Examples:

*   Added a new simulation with wired and wireless hosts exchanging UDP data via an AccessPoint. It shows how to use the IPv4NetworkConfigurator to mix wired and wireless networks.
*   Fixes for BGP examples.
*   New example to demonstrate HNA support in Batman.
*   Hostautoconf example moved to the adhoc folder.

Other changes:

*   Uint128 class was removed. Use ManetNetworkAddress class instead.
*   Visual changes in StandardHost/NodeBase: utility module icons are now smaller and wlan[]/PingApp[] modules are displayed in a row.
*   NodeBase: it is possible to use mobility module even if numRadios = 0
*   Added check for detecting too small netmask parameter value in HostAutoConfigurator
*   PacketDump: TCP header option fix (dumped only in verbose mode.)
*   Bugfix #620. The module pointer returned by a ModuleAccess class is now cached only if get() was used. For get(module) no caching is done.
*   MACAddress: made the constructor explicit so we will not see unexpected implicit conversions in future
*   IPv6Address: removed Uint128 related functions and added an additional constructMask() method
*   headerserializers: compile fix for Visual C++ 10.0 and later
*   Pcap now records on ALL interfaces by default (including external IFs). Added Enter_Method for better error reporting if a packet cannot be serialized. Also added an icon for PcapRecorder.
*   Several TCP related fixes.

You can download INET-2.1.0 [here](/Download.html).