---
layout: post
title: INET-2.99.1 Development Release Available
category: news
---

This release is the second snapshot of the development that has begun in 
early 2013, and will culminate in the release of INET-3.0. The code is 
now fairly stable and we do not expect major changes before 3.0.

The highlights of this release are:

*  Includes a new packet/bit/symbol level physical layer model for the 802.11
   OFDM PHY according to the IEEE 802.11-2012 standard, and a hypothetical
   generic packet/bit/symbol level APSK physical layer model for further
   experimentation. The new implementations include forward error correction
   encoding/decoding, scrambling/descrambling, interleaving/deinterleaving, and
   modulation/demodulation.

*  Contains fixes for more than 300 defects found by Coverity, an online C++
   static code analysis tool. The reported Defect Density is decreased to
   0.5/kLoC which is considered a result. You can find the detailed results at
   https://scan.coverity.com/projects/3472

*  Contains several other memory leak and memory management fixes reported by
   valgrind memcheck.

*  Modernizes C++ source code using new C++11 features such as nullptr, auto
   types, range loop, override, etc.

*  A new tool to enable/disable INET features from the command line.

*  Rewritten serializer classes

*  SCTP improvements

*  New IGMPv3, PIM-DM and PIM-SM models.

*  Improved IPv4NetworkConfigurator

*  TUN/TAP virtual network interfaces

*  New wireless tutorial

*  Added INET version macros (INET_VERSION, INET_PATCH_LEVEL)

This version requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or later. Read
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v2.99.1/WHATSNEW) and
[download INET-2.99.1](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v2.99.1/inet-2.99.1-src.tgz)
now.
