---
layout: post
title: INET-3.0.0 Stable Release Available
category: news

INET 3.0.0 is now available for download. This release contains a lot of 
new features and fixes compared to 2.6. 
Please read the [what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.0.0/WHATSNEW)
file carefully to see all the changes in detail. This release is not source compatible 
with 2.6 so you may need to adjust your models after upgrading.

Highlights:

*  A new physical layer model that builds upon the INET and MiXiM physical
layers and brings them to new heights. Design goals were extreme
modularity, extensibility, the ability to support (and easily switch
between) various levels of detail, and the ability to add support for
exploiting various pieces of parallel hardware.
*  Includes a new packet/bit/symbol level physical layer model for the 802.11
OFDM PHY according to the IEEE 802.11-2012 standard and a hypothetical
generic packet/bit/symbol level APSK physical layer model for further
experimentation. The new implementations include forward error correction
encoding/decoding, scrambling/descrambling, interleaving/deinterleaving, and
modulation/demodulation.
*  Extensive refactoring aimed at improving code quality. It includes
directory restructuring, code formatting, refactoring of init stages and
publish-subscribe communication, and more.
*  Modernized C++ source code using new C++11 features such as nullptr, auto
types, range loop, override, etc.
*  Network layer refactoring that allows higher layer protocols (including
routing protocols) to be written in a network protocol-agnostic manner.
*  Numerous SCTP improvements
*  New IGMPv3, PIM-DM, and PIM-SM models
*  Improved IPv4NetworkConfigurator to support multi-path routing scenarios.
*  TUN/TAP virtual network interfaces
*  Network Emulation feature no longer depends on OMNeT++ to detect the presence
of PCAP. Instead, the feature can be turned on/off by the user.
*  Improved response time on external interfaces.
*  Added support for sending NF_LINK_BREAK signal from BMAC and CSMA. This is 
required for certain routing protocols (i.e., AODV) to function properly.
*  Added a new power model:
   - Removed obsolete classes: IBattery, BasicBattery, InetSimpleBattery, and Energy.
   - Added new interfaces: IEnergyConsumer, IEnergyStorage, and IEnergyGenerator.
   - Added implementations: IdealEnergyStorage and SimpleEnergyStorage.
*  Added a new physical environment model and removing obsolete classes: 
Obstacle, ObstacleControl, and AnnotationManager.
*  Added new geometry model: 
   - Orientation related classes: EulerAngles, Rotation, and Quaternion.
   - Basic 3D geometry classes: LineSegment, Box, Plane, and Polygon.
   - 3D convex shapes: Cuboid, Sphere, Prism, and Polyhedron.
   - Geometry cache data structures: SpatialGrid, QuadTree, and BVHTree.
*  Added support for drawing the physical objects on a compound module canvas
(Tkenv) in 2D as seen from a configured view angle.
*  Rewritten packet serializer classes.
*  Added a new StaticConcentricMobility similar to StaticGridMobility that places
nodes on concentric circles.
*  Removed TracCI and TraCIScenarioManager because these modules are maintained
in the Veins framework.
*  New step-by-step wireless tutorial
*  A new tool to enable/disable INET features from the command line

This version requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or later. Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.0.0/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.0.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.0.0/inet-3.0.0-src.tgz)
now.