---
layout: post
title: INET-3.4.0 Stable Release Available
category: news
---

This INET release requires OMNeT++ 5.0 or later. This is due to the new visualization feature
which uses the Canvas and OSG APIs introduced in OMNeT++ 5.0. Most other parts of the
codebase still builds with OMNeT++ 4.6.

Highlights is this release:

Tutorials:

  - Added a Wireless Tutorial (tutorials/wireless). The tutorial consists of
    several simulation models of increasing complexity, demonstrating the INET
    architecture and features related to wireless communication networks. The
    models are accompanied by a text which explains each step, complete with
    screenshots and recorded animations.
  - Added draft for a visualization tutorial.

Visualizers:

  - Added a new 'visualizer' folder under 'src' that contains visualizer modules.
    The current visualizer modules can display the scene (optionally with osgEarth),
    the network nodes (optionally with 3D models), physical objects in
    the physical environment, node mobility along with movement trail, discovered
    network connectivity, discovered network routes, ongoing transmissions,
    ongoing receptions, propagating radio signals, and statistics.

    The visualizer modules are intentionally kept separate from network protocol
    models. They are responsible for displaying various aspects of the simulation
    in a graphical user interface. The most common mechanism they use is looking
    up other modules and/or subscribing to the signals they emit. The visualizer
    modules are compatible with both Tkenv and Qtenv. In Qtenv they are able to
    display on both a 2D canvas and a 3D OSG scene.

Instrument figures:

  - Implemented a facility that allows one to display various gauges, meters
    and indicators in the network graphics that take their inputs from signals.
    The "gadgets" themselves are figures that are added into the network using
    @figure properties, and they are driven by signals via @statistic properties,
    using a special result recorder ("figure") that sets the value in the target
    figure. Figure types are: gauge, linearGauge, progressMeter, thermometer,
    counter, indicatorLabel/indicatorText, and indexedImage. Their sources
    are in src/inet/common/figures.

    There is a demo in examples/visualization/instruments, and an additional
    usage example in the Wireless Tutorial (tutorials/wireless).

MAC protocols:

  - Added CsmaCaMac, a simple CSMA/CA-based MAC protocol with optional
    acknowledgements and a retry mechanism. With the appropriate settings,
    it can approximate basic 802.11b ad-hoc mode operation. The code is
    based on the original Ieee80211Mac (802.11b) from 2006.
  - IdealMac: Changed out-of-band ACKs to be optional.
  - LMAC, BMAC, CSMA: Fixed handling of frames with bit errors.
  - WirelessNic: added optional classifier submodule
  - Ieee80211Mac: Resurrected link break signal for giving up a transmission.

Radio:

  - The physical environment model has been extended to include a ground model.
    Ground models need to implement the IGround interface that currently
    contains a getElevation() method. A very simple implementation, FlatGround
    is also provided.
  - The TwoRayGroundReflection model has been updated to use the ground model
    of the physical environment.
  - Added packetReceivedFromUpper and packetSentToUpper signals.

Mobility:

  - Mobility models now use the initialZ parameter even if position is
    initialized from the display string.
  - Added VehicleMobility that simulates turning at waypoints.
  - Now all mobile nodes face (i.e. set the  orientation to) the direction of
    movement. This affects radio reception when direction antenna is used.

Physical enviromment:

  - Added geographic coordinate system support.
  - TracingObstacleLoss renamed to DielectricObstacleLoss.

Misc:

  - Added ApplicationPacket that can be used as generic application payload.
    Currently it contains a sequence number.
  - UDPBasicApp/UDPSink: changed to use ApplicationPacket, and record
    received packet sequence numbers
  - RelayUnit: Added packetReceivedFromLowerSignal and packetSentToLowerSignal signals.
  - AODV: Removed AODV-RERR messages for inactive routes.
  - Applications: Added throughput statistic to some applications.
  - IPv4: Added sentTo/receivedFrom upper/lower signals.
  - Common: Added average forest "material".
  - Common: Added throughput result filter.

Build:

  - Added a top level 'doc' target to build all INET documentation in a single step
  - Added project feature tests (tests/features)

Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.4.0/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.4.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.4.0/inet-3.4.0-src.tgz)
now.
