---
layout: post
title: INET-3.3.0 Stable Release Available
category: news

This release requires either OMNeT++ 4.6 or 5.0. (Earlier test versions of OMNeT++ will not work.)

This release requires OMNeT++ 4.6 or 5.0.

Build:

  - Removed unnecessary -pINET from the makemake options. This caused linking
    issues on Windows when 'clang' was used as a compiler. (the INET_API
    macros are needed only for Visual C++)
  - In makefrag, use inet_featuretool instead of scanning the compiler options
    to detect the enablement of the VoIPStream and NSC features
  - Fix: TCP_lwip did not compile when using the command-line make.
  - Examples: 'run' script can now take parameters containing spaces (as long as
    they are quoted properly)

SCTP:

  - Packetdrill: Added SCTP support and socket options (by Irene Ruengeler)
  - SCTP: added support for the SCTP_ACCEPT command (by Irene Ruengeler)

Physical layer:

  - Added IdealObstacleLoss. This obstacle loss model determines power loss by
    checking if there is any obstructing physical object along the straight
    propagation path. The result is either total power loss if there was
    such an object or no loss at all if there wasn't.

MANET:

  - The "MANET Routing" feature (a collection of routing protocols ported
    into INET from other projects) was removed from the source tree. The
    removed MANET routing algorithms are still available in the INETMANET
    fork of INET (https://github.com/aarizaq/inetmanet-2.0). INET now contains
    the following natively implemented MANET routing protocols: AODV, DYMO, GPSR.

Fixes:

  - IPv4: bug fix in IPv4 packet deserialization
  - Ieee802.11: bug fix in 802.11 management code (set TID only for QoS data
    frames)
  - TelnetApp: bug fix (cancel pending timers correctly)
  - IPv4NetworkConfigurator: bug fix: links were not properly detected by the
    configurator when nodes connected to a switch were defined after the switch
    in the NED file
  - IPv6: double delete fixed
  - IPv4RoutingTable: fix: only interfaces with the BROADCAST flag set have
    local broadcast addresses
  - AODV: fix: AODV stopped with an error if an ICMP error packet was received
    (ICMP packets are now accepted and silently dropped)
  - examples: removed obsolete fingerprints.ini files

Ethernet:

  - Added a separate EtherPhyFrame class. Motivation: there was no obvious way
    looking at an EtherFrame to tell whether it already contains preamble+SFD
    or not.
  - Change: When modeling the decapsulation from PHY header (subtracting preamble
    and SFD lengths), padding to minimum frame size was also undone. This is
    no longer done.
  - EtherIFG renamed to EtherFilledIFG
  - Catch duplex-halfduplex misconfiguration and throw error
  - Fix incorrect byte counting during burst
  - Serializer: adapted to the introduction of EtherPhyFrame
  - Serializer: fix: CRC was in wrong byte order
  - Serializer: fix: length field contained incorrect value (size of frame
    instead of size of payload)

Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.3.0/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.3.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.3.0/inet-3.3.0-src.tgz)
now.