---
layout: post
title: INET-3.6.0 Stable Release Available
category: news
---

This release contains some important new features, several bug fixes, and a few
minor enhancements. It requires OMNeT++ 5.1 or later.

Highlights in this release:

 - On Windows, INET is no longer using the auto-import feature of the linker, because
   it generated more than 65536 symbols. Dependent projects crashed because of this.
   All INET APIs now should be prefixed with INET_API macro. (fixes #257)

 - The makefile now generates separate precompiled header for debug and release mode.
   This is required to be able to quicly switch between release and debug mode in the IDE.

 - The IEEE 802.11 MAC model has been extended with several new components. The
   implementation is entirely based on the standard IEEE 802.11™-2012 Part 11:
   Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications.

   The new architecture is designed to be modular to facilitate experimenting
   with new policies, features and algorithms within the MAC layer. Users can
   easily replace individual components with their own implementations. Policies,
   which most likely to be experimented with, are extracted into their own modules.

   The new model has the following replaceable built-in policies:
    - ACK policy
    - RTS/CTS policy
    - Originator and recipient block ACK agreement policies
    - MSDU aggregation policy
    - Fragmentation policy

   The new model also separates the following components:
    - Coordination functions
    - Channel access methods
    - MAC data services
    - Aggregation and deaggregation
    - Fragmentation and defragmentation
    - Block ACK agreements and reordering
    - Frame exchange sequences
    - Duplicate removal
    - Rate selection
    - Rate control
    - Protection mechanisms
    - Recovery procedure
    - Contention
    - Frame queues
    - TX/RX

   There are several enhancements and new features to the previous version, the
   most notable are frame exchange sequences, block acknowledgement, and MSDU
   aggregation.

   The new version was thoroughly tested against the old one using fingerprint
   tests. The tests ensure that the new version doesn't introduce any regression.
   In fact, the tests brought up a few problems in the old implementation that
   were fixed in the new one.

 - The power model has been extended with support for charge/current based models
   as opposed to the existing energy/power based ones. A new energy management
   component has also been added to separate monitoring and controlling of energy
   consumers and generators from the rest of the model.

 - New visualizers has been added to display packet drops and link breaks, data
   contained in interface tables, routes stored in routing tables, queues filled
   with packets, residual capacity of energy storages, and transport connections
   between network nodes. The new visualizers are also added to the already existing
   integrated ones. Note: many features that work with the 2D visualizers currently
   don't work with the 3D OSG visualizers.

 - Added new features for various tutorials and showcases.

Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.6.0/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.6.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.6.0/inet-3.6.0-src.tgz)
now.
