---
layout: post
title: INET-3.99.2 Development Release Available
category: news
---

This release is the next development snapshot of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.

The code is still work in progress, which means some details may change until the
final 4.0 version is released. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.3.

The highlights of this release are:

1. New MSG file format

   The new OMNeT++ 5.3 release contains a new version of the MSG compiler. The
   new MSG compiler comes with an updated MSG file syntax which provides several
   very useful improvements. The most notable one is the introduction of import
   statements. The new MSG compiler is not enabled by default in OMNeT++ 5.3 for
   backward compatibility.

   INET heavily relies on using MSG files, so we decided to switch to the new
   syntax. All MSG files have been updated resulting in much simpler content.

   The most notable MSG file changes are:

    - added import statements
    - switched to proper pointer support
    - deleted early declarations
    - moved several properties from fields to types
    - removed many cplusplus blocks
    - removed many unnecessary typedefs

2. Renamed camel case for abbreviations

   Many INET protocol implementations use several capitalized abbreviations to
   shorten long technical terms. Often these abbreviations are concatenated
   resulting in hardly understandable sequence of capital letters. Some notable
   examples are: AODVRERR, OSPFLSA, PIMDM, etc. Many protocol implementations
   also use identifiers which concatenate camel case words with capitalized
   abbreviations making understanding even more difficult. Some notable examples
   are: TCPSACKRexmitQueue, RTCPSDESPacket, OSPFDDOptions, etc.

   We decided to use a generic camel case naming scheme for the identifiers in
   INET. The most important change is that capitalized abbreviations are simply
   treated as words. Using a generic naming scheme makes INET look more consistent.
   All C++ class names, NED module names, packet class names, etc. have been
   updated according to the new naming scheme.

3. Fixed misnomers

   Some misnomers have been fixed to avoid confusion and to better communicate
   the intended goal and behavior of the affected components.

   The most notable renamed C++ classes, modules, and related packet headers are:

    - Csma -> Ieee802154Mac
      This rename was brought up at the 4th OMNeT++ Community Summit. The main
      reason is that the name has to express that this module is intended to
      implement a specific standard (IEEE 802.15.4) as opposed to some generic
      hypothetical protocol. Otherwise maintainers are free to change the code
      however they see fit.

    - BMacLayer -> BMac
    - LMacLayer -> LMac
      These renames simply remove an unnecessary word that hardly adds anything
      to the meaning. The word layer is not used anywhere else in INET modules,
      this was a leftover after migrating the protocols from MiXiM.

    - IdealMac -> AckingMac
      This rename is admitting that this MAC protocol is not ideal in any way.
      In fact, this trivial MAC protocol isn't a real medium access protocol at
      all. This is primarily useful for sitations where the MAC protocol is not
      to be simulated in detail. It doesn't provide carrier sense mechanism,
      collision avoidance, or collision detection. The only MAC feature it provides
      is optional out of bound acknowledgement, hence the name.

    - IdealRadio -> UnitDiskRadio
      This rename is simply admitting the fact that this radio implements the
      well known unit disk radio model.

   There are several other related C++ classes and NED modules which have also
   been renamed to follow the above renames. For example, IdealRadioMedium ->
   UnitDiskRadioMedium, etc.

4. New models

   Some existing MAC protocols didn't have a predefined wireless interface module
   which may prevented users to find out how to use them.

   - BNic
     This is a wireless interface which uses BMac and ApskScalarRadio by default.

   - LNic
     This is a wireless interface which uses LMac and ApskScalarRadio by default.

   - ShortcutMac
     This module implements a simple shortcut to peer MAC protocol that completely
     bypasses the physical layer.

   - ShortcutRadio
     This module implements a simple shortcut to peer radio protocol that completely
     bypasses the physical medium.

5. Region Tags

   The INET packet API has been extended with region tags. The new region tags
   API is provided by chunks, therefore it's available in packets, queues, and
   buffers. This is an entirely new API that is completely independent of the
   already provided packet tags API.

   Packet tags allow attaching meta information to a packet as a whole. They are
   used inside network nodes to pass information between protocols residing in
   different layers (cross-layer communication). Packet tags don't change when
   new headers are inserted into packets, or when existing headers are removed.

   As opposed to packet tags, region tags allow attaching meta information to a
   region of data designated by an offset and a length. The attached information
   sticks to that data part independently of how the data is stored. Region tags
   are also maintained if the data is queued, buffered, fragmented, or aggregated.

   For example, region tags can be very simply used to measure end to end delay
   in a TCP application. The source application has to attach a creation time
   region tag with the current simulation time to the data before sending it down
   using the TCP socket. The destination application has to query the creation time
   region tag for the data it just received from the TCP socket. The application
   gets a list of creation time region tags in response. Each tag specifies the
   timestamp and the part for which it is attached to. The important thing to note
   here is that all the underlying protocols (including but not limited to TCP,
   IPv4, IEEE 802.11, etc.) may queue, buffer, fragment, aggregate data as they
   see fit. Nevertheless, the region tag API maintains the attached tags as if
   they were individually attached to every single bit. Even if the individual
   subparts are routed using alternative routes in the network.

6. Chunk immutability

   The Packet, ChunkQueue, and ChunkBuffer C++ classes have been changed to
   automatically mark inserted chunks as immutable. Prior to this change it was
   the caller's responsibility to do so, which turned out to be unnecessary.
   With this change the pushHeader and pushTrailer functions have been removed
   from the API, and they have been replaced with insertHeader and insertTrailer
   respectively.

7. Packet drop signals

   All packet drop related OMNeT++ signals have been replaced with the generic
   packetDrop signal. The generic signal always carries a details object with it,
   which describes the packet drop reason and some other data such as a retry
   limit. The main reason for this change is to allow the packet drop visualizer
   to display all packet drops independently of the source and reason.

8. Data link visualization

   The data link activity visualization has been extended with a new feature that
   determines what level of activity is displayed. The supported activity levels
   are the following:

    - service
      The service level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets going in at the top of the link layer in the source node and going
      out at the top of the link layer in the destination node. (all SDUs)

    - peer
      The peer level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets processed inside the link layer in the source node and processed
      inside the link layer in the destination node.

    - protocol
      The protocol level data link activity means that arrows are displayed for
      packets going out at the bottom of link layer in the source node and going
      in at the bottom of the link layer in the destination node. (all PDUs)

9. IEEE 802.11 model

   The model has been changed with respect to packet names for A-MSDU aggregated
   and fragmentated packets. Aggregate packets have a name that is a concatenation
   of the names of all the aggregated packets. Fragment packets have a name that
   contains the name of the original packet plus the fragment index. In both cases,
   the restored packets (deaggregated or defragmented) at the other end have their
   names restored.

Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.99.2/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.99.2](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.99.2/inet-3.99.2-src.tgz)
now.
