---
layout: post
title: INET-3.5.0 Stable Release Available
category: news
---

This release contains mostly bug fixes and compatibility changes. It requires 
OMNeT++ 5.1. Earlier versions of OMNeT++ are *not* compatible.

Highlights in this release:

Build:

  - The build process is now using precompiled headers. This can speed up the 
    build process considerably.
  - Feature macros (WITH_*) that show the enablement of features are now placed 
    into a header file (src/inet/features.h) instead of passed on the command line. 
    The build process adds the WITH_OSG and WITH_OSGEARTH macro to the opp_defines.h 
    file when WITH_OSG/WITH_OSGEARTH is set to yes. This allows the IDE to properly 
    highlight/disable the appropriate code fragments.
  - 64-bit build is now supported on Windows.

Visualizers:

  - Added a Plot figure (see InstrumentsExample).

DHCP:

  - DHCP fixes.
  - DHCP can now activated in a Router by setting hasDHCP=true
  - Added new WirelessNetWith2DHCP example.

Radio:

  - Added two-ray interference model (TwoRayInterference) as a pathoss model.

SCTP:

  - Added StreamReconfig support for SCTP (by Irene Ruengeler)

GPSR:

  - Allow to specify the interface name in a parameter instead of
    using a hardcoded interface name.

Fixes:

  - Small fixes in SimpleEnergyStorage and during Antenna initialization
  - Calling IPv6RoutingTable::getInterfaceByAddress(const L3Address& address) or
    findGpsrOptionFromNetworkDatagram() function caused infinite recursion.
  - Radio: Fixed FreeSpacePathLoss bug in the loss formula for alpha != 2 case,
    reported by Benjamin Sliwa.
  - SimpleVoIPServer now resolves destAddress at startTime (instead 
    of initialization)
  - Ieee8021dRelay: fixed a null pointer crash
  - StaticConcentricMobility: fixed a rounding issue
  - ICMP: fixed "icmp error answer to a fragmented udp packet" problem
  - ICMP: fixing bug #64: Buffer Overflow Error
  - AODV: no longer causes assertion failure when RREP-ACK arrived after a timeout


Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.5.0/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.5.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.5.0/inet-3.5.0-src.tgz)
now.
