---
layout: post
title: INET-3.99.3 Development Release Available
category: news
---

This is planned to be the last development release of the upcoming INET-4.0 version.

All originally planned refactorings have been completed, and we don't expect too many
changes until the final version is released. This version requires OMNeT++ 5.3 or later.

The highlights of this release are:

1. Documentation

   The somewhat outdated 'INET Framework for OMNeT++ Manual' draft has been split
   into two documents. One is called the User's Guide and the other one is called
   the Developer's Guide. The reason for the split is that the two documents have
   different target audiences, and they focus on introducing different aspects of
   the INET Framework.

   The User's Guide is intended for users who are mainly interested in assembling
   simulations using the existing components provided by the INET Framework. In
   contrast, the Developer's Guide is intended for developers who are mainly
   interested in developing their own protocols as an addition to the INET
   Framework. Both guides are work in progress, but many parts have been added,
   deleted, and rewritten compared to the old manual.

2. Packet API

   The packet API has been finalized. Several Packet and Chunk functions have been
   renamed for better consistency and more clarity. Affected C++ class level and
   function level documentation has been updated.

   For more details, see the related patch at:
   https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/commit/cf00e516f318893de5f396a498eb11592d8dd1b9

3. Packet dissector

   The packet API has been extended with a new packet dissector API. The packet
   dissector analyzes a packet solely based on the assigned packet protocol and
   the data it contains. The analysis is done according to the protocol logic as
   opposed to the actual representation of the data. The packet dissector works
   similarly to a parser. Basically, it walks through each part (such as protocol
   headers) of a packet in order. For each part, it determines the corresponding
   protocol and the most specific representation for that protocol.

   The packet dissector is mostly implemented in the PacketDissector C++ class.
   It relies on small registered protocol-specific dissector classes such as the
   Ipv4ProtocolDissector. User defined protocols can register their own protocol
   dissector classes to extend the functionality of the generic packet dissector.

4. Packet filter

   Filtering packets based on the actual data they contain is a long time missing
   functionality of INET. With the help of the new packet dissector API, it is
   very simple to create such packet filters.

   In order to simplify filtering, INET provides a new generic expression-based
   packet filter implemented in the PacketFilter C++ class. The expression syntax
   is the same as other OMNeT++ expressions, and the data filter is matched against
   individual parts of the packet as found by the packet dissector. For example,
   the expression "inet::Ipv4Header and srcAddress(10.0.0.*)" matches all packets
   that contains an IPv4 header with a '10.0.0' source address prefix.

5. Packet printer

   Based on the new packet dissector, the INET packet printer has been reworked.
   The new packet printer is implemented in the PacketPrinter C++ class. It relies
   on small protocol specific printer classes to form the user readable string
   representation. User defined protocols can register their own protocol printer
   classes to extend the functionality of the generic packet printer.

   With the OMNeT++ 5.3 version the message printer API has been changed to provide
   support for ANSI escape sequences for styling, and for options. The new INET
   packet printer allows showing/hiding columns and control various printing
   features from Qtenv. The new packet printer provides the following columns in
   Qtenv: 'Source', 'Destination', 'Protocol', 'Length', and 'Info' similarly to
   the well-known Wireshark protocol analyzer. The info column for simple packets
   is assembled inside-out in terms of protocol nesting, but for more complicated
   packets (e.g. ones using aggregation) it is assembled left to right.

6. Packet tags

   With the OMNeT++ 5.3 version, the old experimental API for attaching tag objects
   to packets is no longer available. Meanwhile INET has been extended with a very
   similar, although not exactly source code compatible API.

   The most important consequence is that cMessage and cPacket instances cannot
   have tags attached any more. In order to make dispatching non-packet messages
   between protocols still possible, two new cMessage subclasses called Request
   and Indication have been introduced. Protocols send instances of said classes
   to request services from other protocols or indicate status changes to other
   protocols.

7. SCTP

   With this new release, SCTP, the last remaining protocol, has also been
   ported to the new packet API.

   Many thanks to Irene Rüngeler for her valuable contribution.

8. Packet drill

   The last remaining application has also been ported to the new packet API.
   This application is heavily used for testing UDP, TCP, and SCTP transport
   protocols. All tests under the packetdrill folder pass.

9. Mobility

   Throughout the mobility API and implementation, speed has been renamed to
   velocity where appropriate. The reason is that speed is generally considered
   a scalar quantity whereas velocity is considered a vector quantity.

   The documentation of orientation has been updated to clarify how exactly it
   is meant to be understood. As a somewhat related change, the double type of
   angles in mobility models and geographic positioning (longitude, latitude)
   has been replaced with compile-time checked C++ types called rad and deg for
   clarity.

   New mobility models have been added, some of which allow the combination of
   existing mobility models. The SuperpositioningMobility combines the trajectory
   of several other mobility modules using superposition. The AttachedMobility
   provides a mobility that is attached to another mobility at a given offset.

10. Various renames

    All network interfaces have been renamed to have 'Interface' suffix in their
    names. All signals having the old 'NF_' (obsolete NotificationBoard) prefix
    in their names have been renamed according to the new INET signal naming scheme.
    Moreover, many functions have been renamed (e.g. camel case) to use the INET
    C++ naming scheme.

11. Visualization

    Physical transmission medium, data link and physical link, network path, and
    packet drop visualizers have been extended with the new packet data filtering.
    This allows, for example, to configure several network path visualizers within
    an IntegratedMultiCanvasVisualizer to display the path of packets with certain
    destination addresses differently.

12. PCAP recording

    Similarly to visualization, PCAP recording has also been extended with the
    new packet data filtering. This allows recording only certain packets in a
    PCAP file, which results in drastically reduced file size and significantly
    increased performance.

13. Other notable changes

    The protocol registration C++ interface has been changed to provide better
    support for the message dispatching mechanism. The result is that protocols
    and MessageDispatcher modules can be connected in more flexible ways. In fact,
    MessageDispatchers now only have one gate vector to connect to, they learn
    where protocols are and act accordingly. Network nodes are free to connect
    protocols directly or by using one or several MessageDispatchers as they see
    fit.

    The physical environment ground model has been extended with a new OSG based
    OsgEarthGround model which uses the elevation data of the map. The ground models
    have been also extended with the computation of the ground normal vector.

    Some globally registered protocol identifiers (e.g. Protocol::ieee80211) have
    been split into separate PHY, MAC, and MGMT protocols to disambiguate packet
    parts for the packet dissector. This only affects the registered protocol
    identifiers, actual protocol implementations are unaffected.

    Several MSG file customizations (i.e. @customize) have been refactored or
    eliminated altogether by using the new MSG compiler features of OMNeT++. The
    main purpose is to simplify MSG files, remove unnecessary C++ customizations,
    and to ease understanding and maintaining these files.

    Potential infinite loop in the GPSR MANET routing has been fixed.

Read the
[what's new](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/blob/v3.99.3/WHATSNEW) file for more detail and
[download INET-3.99.3](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v3.99.3/inet-3.99.3-src.tgz)
now.
