---
layout: post
title: INET-4.0.0 Release Available
category: news
---

With the new INET 4.0 release, the development of the old INET 3.x branch is
stopped. Users are strongly encouraged to use the new INET 4.0 version for new
projects and also for migrating existing projects. Admittedly, migration is not
trivial, but there's an 'INET 4.0 Migration Guide' to help with the task under
the 'doc/misc' folder.

The main changes of the new INET 4.0 major stable release are:

1. Packet API

   The INET Packet API has been completely redesigned to support efficient
   construction, sharing, duplication, encapsulation, aggregation, fragmentation,
   and serialization of packets.

   The new Packet API also adds many other useful features such as a detailed
   packet printer, a packet dissector, a packet filter based on packet data,
   packet tags for cross-layer communication, region tags for attaching metadata
   to packet data, and queueing and buffering packet data.

   The new Packet API also makes implementing communication protocols easier. The
   resulting code looks more similar to the real-world implementation. Supporting
   emulation is pretty much trivial when implementing communication protocols.

   For more details on how to use the new Packet API, see the 'INET Developer's Guide'.

2. Network node architecture

   The internal structure of network nodes has been changed considerably. With
   the new architecture, applications can directly talk to any protocol down to
   the link layer, and protocols don't have to deal with dispatching packets and
   commands to other protocols. Cross-layer communication is directly supported
   in both downward and upward directions.

   For more details on how to use the new architecture, see the 'INET User's Guide'.

3. Documentation

   The somewhat outdated 'INET Framework for OMNeT++ Manual' has been reworked
   and split into the 'INET User's Guide' and 'INET Developer's Guide'. Several
   new detailed showcases have been added and many have been updated; they are
   available on the INET website.

The highlights of this release since the last development release are:

1. Socket API

   The Socket API has been redesigned and uniformized. All sockets can be used
   with similar callback interfaces. All callback functions receive the socket
   object as a parameter to allow handling multiple sockets concurrently.

   New raw Ipv4Socket and Ipv6Socket classes have been added to directly access
   the IPv4 and IPv6 protocols from applications.

2. Module type parameters

   All string NED module parameters, which were used to specify submodule types,
   have been replaced with the standard OMNeT++ typename parameter. This reduces
   the confusion caused by having two different configuration options for the
   same task. The typename parameter is also simpler and more generic in the
   sense that it allows configuring the module type for submodule vector elements.

   The replacement of the EthernetInterface queueType and the Ieee80211Interface
   agentType parameters requires the applications that use them to be updated.
   The queueType parameter had an effect on the dataQueueType of the EtherQosQueue,
   which is no longer true. The agentType parameter depended on the mgmtType
   parameter, which is also no longer true. These parameters must be set separately.

3. NED units

   With the new OMNeT++ 5.4 release, INET supports the automatic conversion of
   non-linear units such as dBm, dBW to W, dB to ratio, etc. All 0/0 and +-1/0
   parameter value assignments have been replaced with NaN and +-inf respectively.

4. Various renames

   Renamed several modules, submodules, classes, interfaces, etc. to be consistent
   with the INET naming conventions:

    - GenericNetworkProtocol module -> NextHopForwarding
    - generic folder -> nexthop
    - gnp submodule -> nextHop
    - InterfaceEntry get/setNextHopProtocolData functions -> get/setNextHopData
    - Protocol::gnp global variable -> Protocol::nextHopForwarding
    - NextHopDatagram class -> NextHopForwardingHeader

    - RsvpRouter module -> RsvpMplsRouter
    - LdpRouter module -> LdpMplsRouter
    - Rsvp module -> RsvpTe.
    - rsvp_te folder -> rsvpte
    - Protocol::rsvp global variable -> rsvpte.

5. Packet error representation

   The physical layer error models have been extended with a corruption mode
   parameter. The available corruption modes are: packet, chunk, byte, or bit
   level. The parameter determines on what level the error model introduces
   errors into a packet.

   In many protocols, various corruption modes don't lead to a different outcome.
   Nevertheless, this change allows implementing IEEE 802.11 A-MPDU aggregation
   with support to only dropping the individual subframes that are received
   incorrectly.

6. IEEE 802.11

   Thanks to Alfonso Ariza Quintana, the 802.11/ac (VHT PHY) modes have been
   added to the physical layer. Furthermore, the necessary 5GHz bands with 20, 40,
   80, and 160 MHz bandwidth have also been added.

   The 802.11 mode lookup mechanism has been extended with bandwidth and number
   of spatial streams parameters, and the mechanism has also been relaxed to
   allow specifying more already supported bitrates (e.g. 86.7 Mbps with 0.1 Mbps
   precision).

   Fixed bug when a packet was received from another Ap and sent up incorrectly.
   Fixed ACK frame duration bug reported by Raphael Elsner.
   Fixed exploded frame transmitter address in MsduDeaggregation.
   Fixed length field wrap around for large packets.
   Fixed center frequency calculation in Ieee80211ArithmeticalBand.

7. Emulation

   The whole emulation support, including the ExternalInterface compound module,
   the Ext simple module, and the corresponding cSocketRtScheduler, have been
   redesigned and heavily refactored. The new C++ scheduler class is called
   RealTimeScheduler, and it is completely independent of the external interfaces.

   The new scheduler still provides real-time simulation execution, but it also
   allows for using the POSIX select mechanism to support I/O operations with
   file descriptors. The external interface hooks into this mechanism to read
   raw packets via PCAP. Furthermore, the new external interface implementation
   uses dedicated raw sockets to send packets.

8. Lifecycle and scenario management

   The LifecycleController module has been removed because the module did not
   have and is not expected to have any parameters in the future. Therefore, the
   LifecycleController module is no longer needed in the network for the lifecycle
   operations to work. The corresponding LifecycleController C++ class with the
   actual functionality remains there.

   The ScenarioManager scripting has been extended with the following shortcuts
   for the lifecycle operations:
    - <shutdown module="hostA"/>
    - <startup module="hostA"/>
    - <crash module="hostA"/>

9. RIP

   Thanks to the contributions of Mani Amoozadeh, the RIP protocol has been
   refactored to store the protocol specific route data in the routing table
   instead of an internal data structure. The protocol has also been extended
   with new hold-down timer and triggered update parameters.

   Fixed sending updates on an interface that is down.

10. Other notable changes

    The Ethernet model has been extended with 200 Gbit and 400 Gbit modes.

    The antenna directional selectivity computation in wireless medium analog
    models has been fixed.

    Several missing protocol dissectors and protocol printers have been added.

    All protocol-specific header serializers have been moved to the folder of their
    respective communication protocol.

    In order to support more recent OSG Earth versions, the osgEarth::ObjectLocatorNode
    has been replaced with GeoTransform and osg::PositionAttitudeTransform.

[Download INET-4.0.0](https://github.com/inet-framework/inet/releases/download/v4.0.0/inet-4.0.0-src.tgz)
now.